# Create an aiWARE API Endpoint with Automate Studio

*Blog Date: 2020-09-16*

The concept of a business process is as old as human labor itself, even with Egyptian manuals meticulously describing the process for various goods production. With the growth of software development in the 1980s and the subsequent boom and bust cycles of the commercial internet in the 1990s, new languages developed for how people could navigate-- and manipulate-- new a new kind of internet native content.

In the Fourth Industrial revolution, AI is now heralded as a leading technological factor, but this potential risks falling short without meaningful tools for a broader group of people to manage, orchestrate, and share their AI models to meaningfully capitalize on the foundational layers set in the previous decades. With the cambrian explosion of AI models, we believe Veritone’s Automate Studio can make these various categories of AI cognition understandable and practical for use by non-engineers to solve their business and personal challenges.

We’ll look at an example of a flow engine created in Automate Studio that uses the NLP/Transcription cognitive category and how that flow can be used by organizations and individuals completely separate from the original flow creator. Before we dive in let’s first understand why both those components matter.

A helpful way to think of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is to consider it as a process for taking in one type of file format, like an audio or video file and producing a new kind of file based on what the AI model predicts it should output. That’s right, these AI models are basically doing a sophisticated kind of guessing, based on how and what they have been trained to predict on. For example, Transcription AI models are trained to analyze a piece of audio and guess what the words being spoken are based on several factors including what human language the model was trained to understand.  We can already see that this means we will need many different kinds of AI machine learning models to perform specialized tasks and this means we will need a system to evaluate the Cognitive Results from each process and then orchestrate what we want to do next based on the results.

The internet made us more interconnected with social media like Twitter and Facebook, but even businesses were able to connect more quickly and efficiently with APIs (Application Programming Interface) designed specifically to be used by users and services across the web to quickly communicate with each other. The web APIs are particularly important because they enable completely separate applications to securely and rapidly share information with each other.

With that background, we can see how Automate Studio builds in both these concepts and enables non-engineers and non-Data Scientists to construct their own AI workflows with a drag-and-drop approach that executes the logic they define.

Further, Automate Studio is built on aiWARE which handles the versioning and lifecycle management of both the AI models as well as the workflows themselves which means as an Automate Studio user, you can focus on solving problems with the variety of AI tools now at your fingertips. And potentially even more intriguing, each of these flows can be shared and run with any number of organizations and users even if they were not the original creators. Any Veritone user that has the engine shared with their organization can define a custom API endpoint using Veritone’s public APIs and expose that engine to run. This means users can now effectively use Veritone APIs to create their own custom logic powered by Automate Studio and Veritone’s suite of AI cognitive engines and expose that custom logic to the world.

What do you want to build with AI models now that so many of them are available and usable in one place? If you have an idea, consider [signing up for Automate Studio](https://veritone.com/onboarding/#/signUp?type=automate&Lead_Source_Detail=Automate%20Blog3%20%20AI%20API) and see what you can do with 20+ categories of AI cognition.

Feel free to reach out to us with any questions, and we also have bounties out for any of these [unclaimed flow ideas](https://docs.veritone.com/#/automate-studio/flow-bounties/README) that you might be interested in taking on!
